Alright! In this video, our job is to
stand up a Mongo database in a Docker
container. So we just want to stand up
Mongo in a Docker container. We're gonna
run a command. What's gonna happen is,
on your machine, you probably don't have
a Docker image downloaded for Mongo. So we're gonna issue this command.
What's gonna happen is, the Docker
Daemon is gonna go out to the public
Docker Repository, and download the
Docker image for Mongo. And then,
it's gonna start it up for us. We'll have a running container on our
local system with a Mongo database in it.
I'll show you how we can
look at that, verify that's running,
and see all that real time, and what's
going on there. So I'm gonna toggle over to my computer now and
show you exactly how we did this. Okay, so, what we wanna do is run the Docker
image. Right now, on the screen, I have
the official Docker repository. So this
is Docker Hub, and this gives us a
description of Docker images that are
available for us to pull down from the
Docker hub. This is the Mongo page.
You can get to this if you want
follow along, just go out to Google in
search of Mongo and Docker, and it'll
probably take you right to this page.
Every container that is up there is
gonna have a descriptive page, like this.
This tells us a little bit about
Mongo blah blah blah blah and it also
tells us how to start a Docker image on
Mongo Instance, and this is important.
I'm pointing this out because every
instance is a little bit different.
This has its own directions and it also
tells us that it exposes a port for us.
So what I'm gonna do, is go and test that,
and what this command is, it says docker
run and gives us a name and then it also
with - -name it gives us some-mongo and
then - d tells it to run it in the
background, and then mongo tells it
that's the image that the last command has
image.
We don't actually need all of that. I
also wanna point out, there's another
command up here, on the page, to pull the
Docker image, and so I'm using the command
docker pull, we'll pull down that image.
Now I've gone over to my machine, and
cleaned it up so I'm not running in any
images. So clear here, and if I do to
docker ps, that tells me any running
images right now. I don't have any images
running. I do have some containers, if I
do a ps -a, that was everything. And
right now, I do have a Postgres database
and MySQL database. So I'm gonna clear
that again. Now if I do a docker run
mongo, you can see there a... I can't
find it, the latest image locally.
This is important, see the :latest there. It's
telling it to go get the latest image.
Let's switch back over to Chrome
here, and we can see that there's tags
here. So I could do a specific tag here
to bring down 3.0, 3.2, 3.4.1 so these are all different tags that
we could pull down. But I'm just saying, I
want the latest one. Let's go back.
What this down doing here, this is kind
of important. It's pulling down these
different sections of it. We'll get into
that later. Now, we can see that Mongo
has started up but it's waiting for
connections on port 2707. And now, this is
a problem because, not really a problem,
but I am running an interactive session.
So if I close this window, Mongo will go
away.
Do let me do a command, I think command T,
gives me another tab. Yeah... so if I do a
docker now at OS X, I just did a command T and
that gave me another terminal window. Now, we can see that that's running. So I have
two tabs here and this is the original
one. So now, if I close this out,
so we're going to do a graceful. So I did a
control C, and if I exit that, now, my
Ridge, my second tab, is open. I closed
that out. I did an exit. So now, if I do
docker ps, I can see that it don't have
any more Docker images running. So this
is important.
docker ps -a. Now, we can see that
container is there. So now, I do it clear,
and goes back here, so I would do a
docker run mongo -d. Op...Okay, made it quick mistake in that, It is actually docker
run -d mongo. So I had those little backwards moment there. Now, we can
see that's running. Now, if I do a docker ps,
now we can see that it is up, and it is
listening on port 27017, which is the
standard Docker port for this. A couple
things not quite ready here, and the way
the Docker documentation was listed over
here, if we look at this, I said to start
a Mongo instance. The statement here
says, the image includes an expose 27017
and that's the default Mongo port.
And yes, it does expose that, but what's
easily misconstrued here or
misunderstood, I should say to be a
little more clear is that it does not
expose it to your application. It will
allow you to link to it. So, the Docker
will do links, which will create like
virtual host names on your system, that
allows two containers to talk to each
other through the networking of your own
container. But, if you try to run an
application going against 27017, it's
not going to work for us. So what we need
to do is a couple of minor things here. So
we need to stop that image. So let's go
ahead and stop him.
Now I'm gonna give it a container name,
so docker stop, just go and paste them in.
Now I can see that nothing's running.
This time, what I wanna do is, I'm
gonna, I'm hitting the up arrow so
it's docker run -d mongo. This tells
us to run the Docker Mongo image but it
doesn't tell us to do a port mapping, so
what we need to do is come up here, after
the run command. Also give it a
parameter of  -p 27017:27017.
What this is going to do is expose at
27071. Oops...
Actually, I'm totally backwards today. 17.
So now, that's gonna expose it to our
host port and 27017 and our
applications will be able to go to
without getting a link to the Docker
container, and if we want to run our
machine as a Mongo database server,
somebody else could connect us
externally as well. So now, I'm gonna start
this. You can see that I started back up,
and if I do a docker ps, now we can see,
that the ports are mapped and we can see
that it got a further name there. So
0.0.0.0:27017 means that has been
mapped as an external port that we can
hit on this machine. So when we go to run
our Spring Boot Application later, I will
be happy and we can connect it directly
to it. Okay, you can see exactly how easy it
was to create a Mongo database using
Docker. This is one of the reasons why I
really love working with Docker, because
it makes things so simple for us to
do. So here, I have a use case, where I
need a Mongo database running on my
machine. Now if you go out on the
internet, and search around
about installing Mongo, it does have run
into some nuances, depending upon what
operating system you're on, and the
different install packages. It's actually
not too bad and some of the package
installers, but if you had to build that
from scratch, It will be quite a bit work
work to be done. Also, if you install
it on your own local development
environment. Now you're living with that
Mongo database, so every time you make
changes you're gonna be coming up in
basically a polluted State. That's one
of the problems of working with
databases that persist data to your
local development environment. Because
you're always working with them and
you're doing things. Now if you're doing
a development scenario that your data
changes underneath you, or you have some
old garbage yet and there you can cause
yourself a lot of headaches. This is
one of the nice things, where I'm gonna
go out, and say, I'm gonna spool up a Mongo
database. It's gonna be a brand new
database. Nothing in it. And then, I can do
my development on it. That's fantastic!
That's like, after doing years and years
of development against persistent data
source, that saves stuff. It does shoot
you in the foot quite often. So next,
we're gonna have an assignment to
actually connect to the Mongo database.